(Men calling out)
VERCOE: Will there be war, do you think?
- Inevitably.
One does not send an anointed king
to the guillotine and expect no consequences.
People are nervous.
As well, they might be.
Jacobin clubs close.
- Folk dig out old weaponry in readiness.
- For war?
Or for free trading?
Trencrom appears to be plotting his next run.
Our informants have been lying low,
so, hopefully, we'll catch 'em off guard.
(Sawing)
Garrick! Go to.
- See 'em off!
- Nay, Mistress Poldark.
- We come at the behest of Mr Trencrom.
- I know why 'ee come and who sent 'ee.
Garrick! Garrick!
What do you think?
I reckon there's more tin in this than copper.
Well, copper lodes do often peter out that way.
What happens further down? Is there
more chance of copper at a greater depth?
Some would say our only chance.
What do you say?
That she's been a grievous disappointment.
Never a sign ofthe old Trevorgie lode, whether
we come at it from Leisure or from Grace.
Yet Mark Daniel swore.
Mark Daniel swore.
(Sighs) If I were you,
I'd not throw good money after bad.
Captain Henshawe reckons
we've enough coal to last two weeks.
Three, ifwe close the lower levels.
But our only hope is to go deeper.
Then we go deeper.
Mr Trencrom did send his regrets.
Mr Trencrom can keep his regrets
and take his goods.
'Twas never the agreement to leave them
three weeks afore they're fetched.
It's taking advantage. I don't like folks taking
advantage and neither do Ross.
Is it true? Your promissory note was paid?
It seems we both have a mysterious benefactor.
Could it be the same?
- Who knows?
- I'm glad of it.
Though, in some ways, I regret the change.
Now I've no further interest in Grace,
you no longer have a reason to call.
I will always have reason to call.
If you wish it.
I wish it.
(Puppeteer speaking as Mr Punch)
(Laughter)
Those properties we spoke of,
have they been acquired?
The deal will shortly be concluded.
Unwin has his uses.
When will you demolish them?
- All in good time. First, we increase the rents.
- The tenants will object.
Then we evict them. Then we demolish.
Then we build.
The Warleggan bank!
- Morning.
- Morning, Dwight.
- Good day to you, Jacka.
- Is it?
Surgeon! Welcome.
You couldn't have come on a better day.
- You're in high spirits, sir.
- Well, so would 'ee be, were 'ee in my shoes.
Rosina has agreed to wed me.
I hope you'll both be very happy.
Now, er...how are you, Betty?
Will you open your mouth
so I can look at your throat?
- Aye, sir, we have you to thank.
- So we have.
Rosina's lipsy leg cured.
Me and my consumptives.
And now earning fair from sail making.
So I see.
It certainly seems to afford you a good living.
Hard work do that, Surgeon,
as you did ought to know.
And when is the wedding to be?
Well, the banns are called this Sunday.
Nothing to wait for now, is there?
Your turn next, Surgeon.
- We shan't trouble 'ee again.
- Till the next drop.
Be sure to make no commotion as you leave
and bring the gaugers down upon us.
(Clattering, Garrick barks)
Oh, my ivers! 'Tis they, the gaugers.
Go. Go!
So do 'ee bring his fizzog home sometimes?
I be about Trencrom's business!
I be his man now!
- I'll give you such a lib sin...
- Hush your clack, woman!
I didn't come home to argeefy!
No, no!
Leave him be. Jud!
- (Garrick barks)
- Enough!
- Aah!
- Two stomachs to eat and neither one to work!
The noble art of Cornish wrestling.
- You have a message for me?
- Aye.
Ohh.
Mark Daniel has been found.
- Where?
- Cherbourg, he was.
Then, with all this kick and sprawl, folk did look
at him askance, so he slips offto the Scillies.
- Can a message be got to him?
- 'Tis done already.
Mr Trencrom's ship, The One & All,
sets sail for France tomorrow on a run.
Look in to St Mary's on his way to France. Mark
will meet 'ee there. He'll return the same way.
I don't like it, Ross.
You'd be joining a smuggling run.
There's no other way. I must meet him.
- I'll tell Mr Trencrom.
- Aye, and when that's done,
drag his sneivy carcass back here.
- No, 'tis too risky.
- Nay, but...
There is an informer about.
The last few runs we've had no trouble,
so Trencrom do reckon he's gone elsewhere.
Aanays, tid'n I?
- Pick my liver, do 'ee thinkI be such a man?
- No, of course not.
Informers be sharp and witsy.
Exactly.
(Door opens)
I see I have a rival.
"From Rosina, with love."
Is that how all your patients address you?
Orjust those in receipt of miracles?
Uncle Ray bids me to travel to London
with him on the third.
So we must escape on the second.
It will make my packing all the easier.
Instead of escaping with a bundle
through the window,
I can have my trunks downstairs
and safely stowed in the coach.
What is it? Do you not want to marry me?
Oh, Caroline.
Marrying you, openly,
would set a seal on my happiness
which I don't deserve, but would gladly take.
Marrying you in secret,
running away with you at night...
Yes?
..it smacks of dishonesty, ofthe fortune hunter.
Which we both know you are not.
Why can we not go to your uncle
and tell him what we intend?
Have I not explained? Ifwe run away in secret,
Uncle Ray will be furious, but...
And rightly so. He'll denounce us
in the strongest possible terms.
But only to himself.
In a year, he will calm down and then there will
be nothing to prevent a reconciliation.
He will accept what cannot be changed.
Exactly.
But a direct confrontation, "I will marry this man,
with or without your blessing",
I will be going expressly against his wishes.
He and I will argue, his pride will prevent him
from backing down and...
I will never see him again.
I acknowledge the rationale,
but dislike the subterfuge.
Because you are too honourable.
Because my honour has been
compromised before. You know this.
The girl I fell in love with, Keren Daniel,
she, too, was a patient of mine
and though her death was not at my hands,
it is on my conscience.
- ThatI understand, but...
- Also on my conscience
is the fact that you are giving up
your fortune for me.
In the first place, I am not.
I am just deferring it.
And, in the second, even if I were,
it would be worth it, to be your wife.
- Do you doubt me?
- Not your intent.
But you may find the reality
less romantic than you imagine.
(Jud and Prudie arguing and yelling)
Conjugal bliss.
A rare commodity.
Yes.
(Distant arguing)
(Birdsong)
AUNT AGATHA: Are those plaguy
scavengers here again?
ELIZABETH: The Reverend and his family?
Yes.
In our house.
Once a week, Aunt. You know of our obligation.
Along with repairs to the church.
Walls. Bridges.
Aims for the poor.
A fine trick to bleed dry
the foremost family ofthe district.
The once foremost family.
A pity their appetites show no such decline.
Where's Ross?
Why does he not visit so often?
Ross has his own affairs to attend to.
We can manage without him.
How long will you be gone?
Two days.
Depends on the weather.
The One & All will load goods in France
and return to collect me.
I'll be taking Henshawe and Paul.
Mark will be glad to see his brother. Henshawe
knows Grace like the back of his hand.
He'll have questions for Mark
which might not occur to me.
Is this really our last chance?
We have two weeks of coal left.
After that, the pumping engine stops.
And so does Grace.
Don't 'ee fret, maid.
Old Jud will be on the case.
Well, that'd make all the difference.
Why did we not look for Mark sooner?
All this time, we could have had clear direction
instead of guesswork.
And Grace could be in profit.
Maybe your luck's turning.
First your mystery benefactor.
Now the finding of Mark.
A change in our fortunes?
I could certainly drink to that.
Two angels in the sky.
That's a pretty picture, Hubert.
- Did you colour it yourself?
- Yes.
Give him ginger, oil of anise and clarified honey.
That should settle his stomach.
- Thank you.
- And you, sir?
Are you in good health?
Aye, sir, weary to the bone.
Up all hours ofthe day and night
in pursuit ofthe free traders.
- You take your duty to heart.
- If I don't, who will?
'Tis a thankless task,
but I expect my patience to be rewarded.
And I reckon it is coming.
You can be sure ofthat.
(Men shouting)
(Low conversation)
(Man calls out)
- You will ride to Trenwith.
- To what purpose?
To alert the family to the latest events in France,
the execution ofthe King,
the expected response from London.
Warn Mistress Poldark of potential unrest.
Advise _her to make secure
her Windows and doors.
But will this not frighten her?
It may well.
Tell Mr Warleggan
I'm grateful for his concern, but...
Had he no other suggestions to make?
No assistance to offer?
I think he felt it would be impertinent to interfere
with your domestic arrangements, ma'am.
Of course.
That's most thoughtful of him.
Please convey my thanks.
I'll ask Tabb to secure all the locks and bolts.
Or, better still, fetch me a pistol.
- I could stop an intruder in his tracks.
- I don't doubt it, Aunt.
With or without a firearm.
To Ross?
I thought I might ask him to call and advise us.
I know you'd welcome that.
Of course.
'Tis only my comfort that concerns him here.
Hmph.
Mr Ross ain't here, but he'll see it on his return.
God bless 'ee, child!
Whoo-hoo-hoo-hoo!
(Giggles)
- (Knocks)
- Oh, what now?
Is your master at home?
Er...
(Door opens)
Oh, Dwight.
I...I didn't mean to disturb you.
I called because Ross is usually home now.
He's away a few days. Is it urgent?
Er, not in the ordinary sense.
Why don't you ask Jinny to make us some tea?
I know that Ross won't mind me
telling you thIs, but...
..he's gone with Trencrom's ship,
dropping off at the Scilly Isles
to meet Mark Daniel.
Then The One & All will pick up Ross
and bring him home,
when they anchor off our cove for the drop.
It seems a lifetime since that night,
when you stood between me and Mark.
- He would have killed you.
- I'd have welcomed it.
I'd betrayed everyone
and everything I held most dear,
but that's the last thing
I want to remember tonight, I...
I came to tell you I'm leaving.
To be with Caroline?
How did you guess?
(Scoffs) And you're to marry?
- Oh, Dwight!
- But her uncle forbids it.
So we must do it in secret.
We leave on Friday night.
- Well, cannot you stay here?
- Not within her uncle's reach.
And, besides, I owe it to Caroline to start afresh
in a new town,
where my history with Keren is unknown.
Well, I'm...I'm happy for your sake,
but... for ours...
You'll be sorely missed.
I want you to know and to tell Ross...
..how much I owe to you both.
Leaving like this, it's...
..it's...it's a great sorrow to me.
Marrying for love is not a time for grieving.
Worry about us and our ailments till Friday,
but...then build your new life
as ifwe'd never been.
Mark said he'd meet us at the Quayside Inn.
PAUL: 50 men?
I'd hope to employ twice that
before next year is out.
IfI could see
all Grambler and Sawle employed...
- 'Twould be a fine thing.
- 'Twould indeed.
Well, here's to that.
And to Mark.
- In him we trust.
HENSHAWE: To Mark.
Miss Penvenen.
I was passing and it struck me as remiss
I have never paid a call.
And soon you'll be leaving for Bath.
Oh.
Did Dwight say so?
And here I am thinking
that he might have changed his mind.
Why would he?
You know men.
So changeable.
Do you not find?
I think Dr Enys is as like as any
to remain steadfast.
Is that your experience of husbands?
I mean, generally, to be relied upon?
- Some tea?
- Why not?
(Rings bell)
And how fares Captain Poldark's
mining venture? Is that also secure?
Far from it.
Oh, dear.
Well, I suppose one can't have everything.
I suppose one cannot.
Did Ross reply?
He did not.
It's unlike him to be so remiss.
I wonder what could have detained him.
(Drunken singing) ..a preacher stout,
a burning, shining light
The people all said
What he has in his head
will surely turn out right
Oh...
The keenly lode, the keenly lode,
of bals the best, my boys...
(Singing stops)
Brother! Oh, 'tis good to see 'ee.
How are you?
CAROLINE: Deaeright,
I'm afraid there's been a complication.
W have to meet tomorrow morning.
I never touch it now.
I keep a guard on my tongue, night and day.
You know why we wished to meet?
Like you said in your letter,
about what I saw down Grace that night.
Ever since I've been trying to think.
- 'Ee don't remember, brother?
- Oh, I mind what I saw.
But where I see'd it?
I was fair crazed that night.
- Would a plan ofthe workings help?
- Oh, it would. It would, indeed.
Well...
Wait.
I went down here.
Go on.
I... I think there was water.
And then I walked in the 30 level.
I sat down and thought to end it all by drowning.
Then I got up and I went bearing east.
Across a plank, half rotten.
You gave her a headstone, like I asked?
We gave her a headstone.
"Keren Daniel, wife of Mark, aged 22."
Like you asked.
22.
Still a child.
That surgeon, Enys,
it was 'ee I should have killed.
Try to remember, Mark.
Where did you go next?
Just above the gunnies, bearing right,
there's an old pick down there.
I took it up and began to cast around.
A fine bit of ground it looked.
Where was it? Just...here?
I reckon.
I went on again, climbing all the while.
- There was an old air shaft.
- Here?
It was all filled in.
I reckon I was barely 15 fathom from grass.
And from there, you can turn three ways.
I turned east.
And you go down over broken ground
where the lode has been worked,
but...only the bottom.
The backs is untouched.
There be fine quartzy rock and gossan.
It was too high for me to get at, but I'd wager
there'd be a mint of money in that place alone.
Just...here?
Just here.
And, after that, you came up?
And after that I came up.
Thank you, Mark.
Thank 'ee.
(Hissing)
(Thud of machinery)
'Twas when he mentioned quartz
and I looked at ye.
'Twas the first thing we found.
- And it barely paid for the working.
- Mm.
- I blame myself.
- Nay, Cap'n Ross.
To pin everything on the ramblings of a man
crazed with grief and rage, what was I thinking?
It could have been true.
At the outset, perhaps, but experienced miners
cannot work for months on end
and not find whatever good ground is there.
It's the old story.
The drowning man and the straw.
- I only wish...
- Yes?
That there was some other way,
which did not require us to leave so furtively.
Or leave at all.
What do you mean?
Are you sure you don't regret
more than the manner of our leaving?
Ever since we decided to go,
I've noticed a reluctance in you.
Not at all. I love you.
What reluctance could I have?
Yet I wonder.
Six months from now,
will you not sometimes sigh for your Cornish life
and your Cornish Rosinas?
I may well. They matter to me.
I cannot pretend to be indifferent to their fate.
But my mind is set.
So, tonight, then?
Tonight.
(Knocks)
Inquire of Mistress Poldark if her safety
measures are in place. Urge her to be vigilant.
Word has reached me of some tinners
who propose to claim their right
under Stannary Law to enter private land.
Warn her to be on her guard.
Prospect for tin?
On our land?
These people are a law
unto themselves, ma'am,
and Mr Warleggan fears
they may be encouraged to rise up
by the example oftheir French counterparts.
Once again,
I thank Mr Warleggan for his concern.
If Mr Warleggan is so concerned,
why does he not come here himself?
The male ofthe species, inadequate, at best.
Better to rely on one's own resources.
I'm away to Sawle to see ifthere's any news.
Keep Jeremy from his nap.
I want him sound asleep all through it.
May I speak with Ross?
He's from home.
Did he not receive my note?
Prudie?
- Do 'ee know of any note?
- Yes, Mistress.
I do give it to Mr Ross myself,
into his very own hand.
Oh.
Then I expect he was too busy to reply.
Yes. I expect he was.
Here you go. I've got potatoes...
Mistress Demelza!
Ohh!
Rosina!
Is it your knee?
'Tis like it belonged to before Dr Enys mend it.
Only now it is worse.
- We should send for him.
- I'll set Charlie to it.
Nay, he be sick. Remember?
Dr Enys bid him to keep to his bed.
I'll go. You keep her warm and still.
I'll be back directly.
(Knock at door)
Demelza, what brings you here?
Rosina Hoblyn, 'tis her knee locked again.
Can 'ee tend on her?
I...I fear I cannot.
My plans have changed.
I'm due to leave with Caroline.
Tonight? But...I... I thought...
It was tomorrow, yes, but her uncle...
No, no, you must go. I'll see to Rosina.
Maybe call Dr Choake.
Yes. That would...
No. Wait. Er... I cannot allow that.
She's my patient.
Caroline's expecting you.
I think, if I leave now, there'll be time.
For the first time in my life, I feel old.
We're none of us as young as we were, Ross.
These last few years...
Often I've known failure, but...
..I always believed it was a temporary setback,
but this time...
- 'Twas a brave venture.
- Was It?
I begin to think it was the height of my folly.
To throw away a profitable investment
and pour everything I had,
and persuade Francis to do likewise,
into a played-out mine that failed my father
a quarter of a century back?
I didn'tjust gamble with money. I gambled
with the happiness and security of my workers
and, most especially, that of my wife and child.
What'll 'ee do now?
(Sighs) Learn my lesson.
Plough my fields, harvest my crops,
cherish my family.
Live a quiet life.
There's a lot to be said for it.
My wife would agree with you.
Tell me what happened.
I turned it on the cobbles, sir,
and it sudden go all tight.
We thought to send Charlie for 'ee, but since
he be sick, Mistress Poldark did kindly go.
- What's the matter with Charlie?
- You did ought to know that.
'Tis on account of 'ee telling him to stay abed
that he's not helping with the run tonight.
Aargh! Aargh!
There now.
- What did 'ee do?
- Can you stand?
(Giggles) 'Tis all mended?
Oh, sir, I'm that grateful.
- 'Twas afeared 'twas gone for good.
- I think you should wear a bandage.
At least until the tendons knit together
and if it ever happens again...
Why, sir, if it do, we'll just make her sit quiet
till we call for 'ee again.
- You'll take a dram?
- No, I...
Thank you. That's most kind.
- (Jacka pours drink)
- What's this about Charlie?
- Did he tell you I said he must go to bed?
- Not I, but them as wanted his help with the run.
I don't understand.
Trencrom's ship is coming in tonight.
They sent round to tell him to be ready.
But he said he's a fever and the surgeon said
he must stay abed, on account of his lungs.
I said no such thing.
Why would he tell such a strammin' great tale?
Your wedding's in a fortnight?
Aye.
He'd be anxious about the risk and about
his health. It's a thing any man would do.
- I must leave you now.
- Till 'ee come again.
It's been my privilege to be able to help you all.
The informer...
..could it be Charlie?
- You must keep to your plans.
- No.
- I can go to Charlie and still get to Killewarren.
- What will you do?
Confirm our suspicions. We may be mistaken.
But the drop's tonight.
What ifthere's an ambush?
- I'll come with you.
- No. You must not.
If you're seen out and about
and the ambush is set...
Go home. I'll to Charlie.
Then ride like the wind to Caroline.
(Sighs)
Was that a yawn, Horace?
I know, my pet.
We have a long journey tomorrow.
And Uncle Ray is looking weary.
Assure...Horace...
..that Uncle Ray, though undoubtedly ancient,
still has enough stamina
to complete his correspondence.
Is it important?
Instructions to my steward, regarding the estate
while we're...while we're away.
How odious I should find that.
Well, all the more reason
to marry wisely, my dear.
When you come to inherit, you'll be grateful
for a husband who takes such matters in hand.
Lottie, I've come to visit your father.
- It's good of 'ee to call, sir.
- Sit up. I want to examine you.
- Nay.
- Sit up, man.
You say you have a fever?
Let me see what ails you.
DEMELZA: Good evening to you, sir.
'Tis a fine night.
Aye.
Well, if you will not retire, then I must.
My eyes will not stay open.
Right, I won't be long.
- Good night, my dear.
- Good night.
- You have no fever.
- Nay, Sir.
Three hours gone, I was all of a shrim...
Why the sham? An excuse to avoid your part
in the tub-carrying?
I swear, first it come on me like ice.
Next, I was sweating like a weed.
For two years, there's been an informer about.
Well, everyone know that.
Have 'ee caught him?
I rather think I have.
Stay alert, men. They could be anywhere.
Well, that's a fine thing to say!
How do you afford these curtains?
Those candlesticks?
Out of sail-making?
Or selling your friends?
Get out. Now! _
And take your nasty suspICIons With 'ee!
It's you who should get out, before your friends
realise you've betrayed them.
Thee's the betrayer. Making eyes at Rosina,
fingering her knee
when 'ee think no-one's looking?
- What time is the run?
- I don't know.
Is there an ambush?
- I think you do know.
Think what 'ee like. You've no proof I'm a traitor.
I beg to differ.
- Where did you get this book?
- I buyed it.
- Where?
- Redruth.
This book belonged to Hubert Vercoe,
the Customs Officer's son.
- I saw it in his hands.
- That proves naught!
- There are many such books.
- None like this.
With the angels' wings coloured red
by Hubert himself.
- There was a soldier.
- Save us!
- Where?
- By the long field.
And Ross will walk straight into the ambush.
- What will 'ee do?
- You'll know when I've done it.
You go home, Surgeon.
Forget what 'ee see'd.
There's nothing you can do now.
Pssst!
Stay low. Stay low.
Keep the candles burning
and don't let anyone enter.
Why, maid, what do 'ee intend?
I'm gonna try and get down to the cove
and warn 'em before the ship comes ashore.
(The One & All creaks)
There's the sign, Hensh, that's us.
Start loading up.
I must ask you to remain indoors this evening.
Trooper Wilkins will guard you.
Against what, may I ask?
Do you suppose there to be an enemy about?
Of sorts, ma'am. We have word that the
smugglers intend to use your cove tonight.
Where's your husband?
He's in St Ives. He'll be back tomorrow.
- Would you like a glass ofwine?
- Thank ye, no. I'm on duty.
What is it that you want with my husband?
What have we to do with this?
Nothing, I hope, but since it's your land,
I think ye can hardly be as innocent as ye look.
Why would you do it? Betray your own folk?
What folk? Nobody did aught for me.
Folks only look to theirselves in this life.
- By selling their friends?
- I done what I done.
You don't have to like it
and 'ee don't be myjudge!
(Chair legs clatter)
My dearest uncle, for most of my life,
you have been both father and motherto me...
(Poker clatters)
Believe me, ma'am, for the favour
of your goodwill, I would pay a very high price.
But none which involves a neglect of duty.
And what should I do?
I can ill spare Wilkins,
but you give me no choice.
(Blade scrapes table)
Urrgh!
Charlie...
(Groans)
You mustn't risk coming ashore with us, Hensh.
Stay aboard till she docks at St Ann's.
- Gladly. Good luck.
- Stay safe.
(Owl hoots)
Take a seat, ma'am. 'Twill be a long night
and you'll not wish to tire yourself.
I'm sure I don't wish to be given orders
in my own house.
Wish it or no, 'tis my orders we go by,
so you'll kindly oblige me
by keeping where I can see you.
DEMELZA: And what ifwe wish
to get some sleep?
I must ask you to do so here, ma'am,
so I can keep an eye on you.
Cap'n.
(Waves splash against the oars)
(Grunts)
VERCOE: Wait till everything is offthe boat.
Flemmo, take this.
- Up there.
PAUL: Ted!
Did you find your brother?
- We did.
- Was he well?
- Did he have aught to tell?
- To tell? Yes.
Of any use? No.
Ross, what's that?
Ambush.
Relaunch.
- Relaunch!
- Come on!
(Panicked shouting)
- Relaunch!
- Come on!
- Come on, boys!
Go! Go! Go!
- (Men shouting)
- Go!
- Come on!
ROSS: Get in!
Push!
Go!
ROSS: Get in!
- Push! Come on!
Ross, let's go!
- I'm gonna take my chances here.
- 'Ee'll never make it.
Go! Row!
Fire!
- Halt in the name ofthe King!
VERCOE: Cut 'em off!
- Cut 'em off!
- Halt!
(Musket fire)
None ofthat.
You know the captain's orders.
I have a little boy upstairs. He'll be frightened.
I must bring him down.
- I can't allow that.
- Do you make war on babies now?
Get out of my way.
- Is there a baby?
- Of course there is.
Very well. But be quick about it.
(Shouï¬ng)
(Musket fire)
You!
(Grunts)
(Breathes heavily)
- Demelza.
- Ross!
I thought...
- We need to get to the house.
- There's soldiers guarding it - McNeil.
- Oh, damn it.
- Are you hurt?
No, it's just a scratch.
(Distant shouting)
They're coming.
Soldiers? At this time of night?
There must be some unrest.
Why does Ross not answer my notes?
Has he no care for us at all?
He has his own family to protect.
Then I must appeal for help elsewhere.
Go in through the kitchen.
I must get to the cache.
Through the side door.
I have a key. Make haste.
- Where have you been?
- Upstairs.
- How did you get down?
- By the back stairs.
- You never mentioned...
- I'm here. Isn't that enough?
(Rapid knocking at door)
He's in the library.
Where is Captain Poldark?
- In St Ives, I believe.
- You believe wrong.
I saw him not ten minutes ago.
Has he come in here?
No-one has been in but you, sir.
He's headed in this direction.
He'll be somewhere about.
How dare you come breaking in here.
My husband will hear of it.
And shortly, I trust. You will give us permission
to search the house?
I most certainly will not.
You've searched the cellars? No contraband?
- I told you that Ross was in St Ives.
- I wish I believed you.
Search the outhouses and the stables.
I'll take the library.
- The library, it is sometimes locked.
- No doubt you have a key.
(Door creaks)
Over here.
Bring light.
- Here it is.
- Just like he said.
Give me the pistol, man.
Guns at the ready.
Vercoe?
Would you mind?
More light!
(Steady drizzle)
Are you shivering, my precious?
Perhaps we should go inside
before you catch a chill.
- (Relieved sigh) They let you go.
- Finally. Now I must go to Caroline.
- Pray God she'll understand.
- Of course she will.
- And Ross?
- There's no sign of him.
I cannot conceive where he would be.
Not in the cache, at any rate.
You won't forget us?
Neven
Yaah! Hup!
(Sighs)
(Door opens)
Where's your father?
Where is he?
Where's your father, child?
Never fear. We won't hurt 'ee.
Numbers?
He'll be counting his days
when I lay my hands on him.
'Twas Charlie?
- The informer?
- 'Twas.
JUD: Right, let's get after him.
I have a letter for you, sir.
CAROLINE: Deaeright,
I have left for London with my uncle,
a move which cannot surprise you
afterthe foasco of last night.
It is better this way. Ever since we agreed
to elope, I have known of your struggle
between your infatuation for me
and your real love - your patients.
Now you need no longer worry
or give anything up.
Except me. And that you have already done.
So, farewell, Dwight.
I shall never see you again.
Your sincere friend,
Caroline Penvenen.
George, I've been worried out of my mind.
- I haven't.
- There was a smuggling incident.
- The military were out in force.
- A pity they've nothing better to do.
Though I'm told they had their eye
on a bigger prize. Your nephew.
- Ross? _ _
- I'm not clear as to his preCIse involvement.
- Merely that he was involved.
- Stuff!
It baffles me why he considers himself
above the law,
exempt from the duty we law-abiding citizens
pay on legally-imported goods.
- Piffle!
- Is it certain?
As it stands. He's disappeared. So...
On the run from justice.
Oh, no doubt he'll live to fight
and offend another day, but, still...
I pity anyone who must depend on such a man.
He must have made it to the library.
The table had moved and the rug.
- But if he'd no time to open the cache...
- Where could he be?
- (Distant talking)
- Soldiers!
The captain says to move out.
JUD: So was he killed
or did he do the job hisself?
I reckon we'll never know.
(Grunts)
(Door opens)
Mistress Poldark was reassured?
I believe so.
(Clink of glasses)
I wonder she does not remarry.
A husband could offer her more protection.
He could. (Pours drink)
And he will. (Replaces stopper in decanter)
His hand was all bloody.
I can't stop thinking about it. What...?
What if it was worse than he thought? Or what if
he's lying bleeding to death somewhere?
Hush, maid, don't think such a thing.
(Plank scrapes floor)
DEMELZA: With your heart mating
I'd hold a finger to my tongue
I'd hold a finger waiting
My heart is sore, until itjoins in song
With your heart mating
Ross!